# copy/pasted (i wrote this in the past)

- All from a Course In Miracles

  - It is ceaselessly difficult to put into words what the author of this book is expressing. At a fundamental level, it is written by a highly intellectualised individual in the spirit of soothsaying. Hence, vaguery and randominity is constant. Nonetheless, this is a book that undoubtedly was written by a mind of purely original expression. She, Helen Schucman, writes in the spirit of prophesy which in many ways is grounded in vaguery to leave open to interpretation and truth to be discerned rather by the reader than the author. This is a constant in all prophetic tradition. To believe that Jesus or Moses or Muhammad were inherently aware of the truth is quite delusional. The reason for this is that they were men, like me and you, and while people can hold wisdom and perhaps have a better approximation of the truth - none of our minds are synomous with the minds attributed to computers (though many would beg to differ). It is a much more abstract entity than a computer so there is always a grey area. There is always room for the prophetic tradition and I would argue that anyone that can do it well is not doing a disservice to humanity in using their creativity in such a way. I believe that Helen Schucman was one who had this capability.
  - The format used in this article is simply paragraphs annotated from the book with a short note of my own interpretation.
    - The issue of authority is really a question of authorship. When you have no authority problem it is always because you believe you are the author of yourself and project your delusion unto others. You then perceived the situation as one in which others are literally fighting you for your authorship. This is the fundamental error of all those who believe they have served the power of God. This belief is very frightening to them, but hardly travels. He is, however, eager to induce not to punish his children, but only because he knows that it makes them happy. God's creations are given their true authorship. But you prefer to be anonymous. When you choose to separate yourself from your author. Being uncertain of your true authorship, you believe that your creation was anonymous. This leaves you in a position where it sounds meaningful to believe that you created yourself the dispute sounds, the dispute over authorship has left such uncertainty in your mind. There may even doubt whether you really exist at all.
      - We believe that we are solely the authors of our own existence and that others are at constant war with us to author us. God is the true author of our lives. We and all others are manifestations of God. To believe otherwise can only hold us back from our full potential. In other words, be forever positive about outside influences as they are guided by the same entity that guides you.
    - When you are sad, know this need not be. Depression comes from a sense of being deprived of something you want and do not have. You remember that you are deprived of nothing except by your own decisions and then decide otherwise.
    - Watch your mind for the temptation of the ego and do not be deceived by it, it offers you nothing. When you have given up this voluntary dispiriting, you will see how your mind can focus and rise above fatigue and heal.
      - We can redefine our wants towards a more reasonable direction.
    - The habit of engaging with God and his creations is easily made if you actively refuse to let your mind slip away. The problem is not one of concentration; it is the belief that no one, including yourself, is worth consistent effort. Side with me consistently against this deception, and do not permit this shabby belief to pull you back. The disheartened are useless to themselves and to me, but only the ego can be disheartened.
    - You are a mirror of truth, in which God himself shines in perfect light. To the ego's dark glass you need but say, "I will not look there because I know these images are not true." Then let the Holy One shine on you in peace, knowing that this and only this must be. His mind shone on you in your creation and brought your mind into being. His mind still shines on you and must shine through you. Your ego cannot prevent Him from shining on you, but it can prevent you from letting Him shine through you.
      - Liberation comes with a radical belief in oneself.
    - In learning to escape from illusions, your debt to your brother is something you must never forget. It is the same debt that you owe to me. Whenever you act egotistically towards another, you are throwing away the graciousness of your indebtedness and the holy perception it would produce. The term "holy" can be used here because, as you learn how much you are indebted to the whole sonship, which includes me, you come as close to knowledge as perception can. The gap is then so small that knowledge can easily flow across it and obliterate it forever.
      - The point is to love all people. To have a belief in their intrinsic holiness.
    - I will go with you to the Holy One, and through my perception he can bridge the little gap. Your gratitude to your brother is the only gift I want. I will bring it to God for you, knowing that to know your brother is to know God. If you are grateful to your brother, you are grateful to God for what he created. Through your gratitude you come to know your brother, and one moment of real recognition makes everyone your brother because each of them is of your Father. Love does not conquer all things, but it does set all things right. Because you are the Kingdom of God I can lead you back to your own creations. You do not recognize them now, but what has been dissociated is still there.
      - Reiteration of the previous point
    - Everything the ego perceives is a separate whole, without the relationships that imply being. The ego is thus against communication, except insofar as it is utilized to establish separateness rather than to abolish it. The communication system of the ego is based on its own thought system, as is everything else it dictates. Its communication is controlled by its need to protect itself, and it will disrupt communication when it experiences threat. This disruption is a reaction to a specific person or persons. The specificity of the ego's thinking, then, results in spurious generalization which is really not abstract at all. It merely responds in certain specific ways to everything it perceives as related.
      - The last point is related to the way in which one can be prone to assumptions, specifically those which lead to antisocial behaviours. This is of the thought that any antisocial behaviour is wrong.
    - The Holy Spirit is the only part of the Holy Trinity that has a symbolic function. He is referred to as the Healer, the Comforter and the Guide. He is also described as something "separate," apart from the Father and from the Son. I myself said, "If I go I will send you another Comforter and he will abide with you. "His symbolic function makes the Holy Spirit difficult to understand, because symbolism is open to different interpretations. As a man and also one of God's creations, my right thinking, which came from the Holy Spirit or the Universal Inspiration, taught me first and foremost that this Inspiration is for all. I could not have It myself without knowing this. The word "know" is proper in this context, because the Holy Spirit is so close to knowledge that he calls it forth; or better, allows it to come. I have spoken before of the higher or "true" perception, which is so near to truth that God himself can flow across the little gap. Knowledge is always ready to flow everywhere, but it cannot oppose. Therefore you can obstruct it, although you can never lose it.
      - A wonderful metaphor. The Holy Spirit as Universal Inspiration. This is what Jesus himself meant when he said "If I go I will send you another Comforter and he will abide with you." The Holy Spirit is available to us all. It contains "'true' perception" and endless knowledge.
    - The ego cannot oppose the laws of God any more than you can, but it can interpret them according to what it wants, just as you can. That is why the question, "What do you want? " must be answered. You are answering it every minute and every second, and each moment of decision is a judgment that is anything but ineffectual. Its effects will follow automatically until the decision is changed. Remember, though, that the alternatives themselves are unalterable. The Holy Spirit, like the ego, is a decision. Together they constitute all the alternatives the mind can accept and obey. The Holy Spirit and the ego are the only choices open to you. God created one, and so you cannot eradicate it. You made the other, and so you can. Only what God creates is irreversible and unchangeable. What you made can always be changed because, when you do not think like God, you are not really thinking at all. Delusional ideas are not real thoughts, although you can believe in them. But you are wrong. The function of thought comes from God and is in God. As part of his Thought, you cannot think apart from him.
      - Quite strange. The first idea appears to relate to a quite modern productivity mindset that one must make a decision as to what they do in a given moment and stick with it until the decision alters. Secondly, it states that the Holy Spirit and the ego are the only choices to decide upon which appears to say that there is generally only one pure path which relates to the spirit while all paths other than this relate to the ego. Lastly, it seems to say that we are an extension of God.
    - Remember, though, that the alternatives themselves are unalterable. The Holy Spirit, like the ego, is a decision. Together they constitute all the alternatives the mind can accept and obey. The Holy Spirit and the ego are the only choices open to you. God created one, and so you cannot eradicate it. You made the other, and so you can. Only what God creates is irreversible and unchangeable. What you made can always be changed because, when you do not think like God, you are not really thinking at all. Delusional ideas are not real thoughts, although you can believe in them. But you are wrong. The function of thought comes from God and is in God. As part of his Thought, you cannot think apart from him.
      - The idea that there is a perpetual "God thought" occurring within us. It is forever within us.
    - All who believe in separation have a basic fear of retaliation and abandonment. They believe in attack and rejection, so that is what they perceive and teach and learn. These insane ideas are clearly the result of dissociation and projection. What you teach you are, but it is quite apparent that you can teach wrongly, and can therefore teach yourself wrong. Many thought I was attacking them, even though it was apparent I was not. An insane learner learns strange lessons. What you must recognize is that when you do not share a thought system, you are weakening it. Those who believe in it therefore perceive this as an attack on them. This is because everyone identifies himself with his thought system, and every thought system centers on what you believe you are. If the center of the thought system is true, only truth extends from it. But if a lie is at its center, only deception proceeds from it.
      - First, a thought system here can be thought of as a system of ideas to organise one's reality.
      - A thought system gains strength simply by it's recognisation or acknowledgement. And vice versa. So, what we have here is the idea that the foundation of one's thoughts are a thought system and that we identify with this system.
      - Lastly, there are foundational truths about reality and when one does not see these truths when they are expressed to them they express emotions such as "retalitation and abandonment" and believe that they are being "attacked and rejected". They are living in a form of deception.
    - You learn first that having rests on giving, and not on getting. Next you learn that you learn what you teach, and that you want to learn peace. This is the condition for identifying with the Kingdom, since it is the condition of the Kingdom. You have believed that you are without the Kingdom, and have therefore excluded yourself from it in your belief. It is therefore essential to teach you that you must be included, and that the belief that you are not is the only thing that you must exclude.
      - This is analogous to the modern interpretation of learning about how teaching another is the best way to learn something. But, this relates to all factors of life, not just learning.
      - To learn peace, the idea here is that peace is a necessary decision to become closer to the spirit or God.
    - To teach the whole Sonship without exception demonstrates that you perceive its wholeness, and have learned that it is one. Now you must be vigilant to hold its oneness in your mind because, if you let doubt enter, you will lose awareness of its wholeness and will be unable to teach it. The wholeness of the Kingdom does not depend on your perception, but your awareness of its wholeness does. It is only your awareness that needs protection, since being cannot be assailed. Yet a real sense of being cannot be yours while you are doubtful of what you are. This is why vigilance is essential. Doubts about being must not enter your mind, or you cannot know what you are with certainty. Certainty is of God for you. Vigilance is not necessary for truth, but it is necessary against illusions.
      - For one, to be aware of a higher concience or guiding power that many call God is something we must constantly do.
      - Secondly, as we are guided by God, we are intrinsically connected to what God decides. If we believe this completely than we have no reason to doubt what we are or our being. As it is certain through God.
    - I said before that the ego's friend is not part of you, because the ego perceives itself at war and therefore in need of allies. You who are not at war must look for brothers and recognize all whom you see as brothers, because only equals are at peace. Because God's equal Sons have everything, they cannot compete. Yet if they perceive any of their brothers as anything other than their perfect equals, the idea of competition has entered their minds. Do not underestimate your need to be vigilant against this idea, because all your conflicts come from it. It is the belief that conflicting interests are possible, and therefore you have accepted the impossible as true. Is that different from saying you perceive yourself as unreal?
      - When you are steadfast in your faith you see all around you as equals as this is the only way to keep the peace.
    - You are the Will of God. Do not accept anything else as your will, or you are denying what you are. Deny this and you will attack, believing you have been attacked. But see the love of God in you, and you will see it everywhere because it is everywhere. See his abundance in everyone, and you will know that you are in him with them. They are part of you, as you are part of God. You are as lonely without understanding this as God himself is lonely when his sons do not know him. The peace of God is understanding this. There is only one way out of the world's thinking, just as there was only one way into it. Understand totally by understanding totality.
      - The idea that the only way to truly find peace is through a pantheistic understanding. Love is in all others and this love can be a part of you. Understand the totality of God.
    - The Holy Spirit will teach you to perceive beyond your belief, because truth is beyond belief and his perception is true. The ego can be completely forgotten at any time, because it is a totally incredible belief, and no one can keep a belief he has judged to be unbelievable. The more you learn about the ego, the more you realize that it cannot be believed. The incredible cannot be understood because it is unbelievable. The meaninglessness of perception based on the unbelievable is apparent, but it may not be recognized as being beyond belief, because it is made by belief.
      - To perceive beyond your belief is to have faith in God. Nothing can break this faith, not even one's own beliefs and ideas as when they correlate with a lack of faith it must be remembered that they are not true.
    - The extension of God's Being is spirit's only function. Its fullness cannot be contained, any more than can the fullness of its Creator. Fullness is extension. The ego's whole thought system blocks extension, and thus blocks your only function. It therefore blocks your joy, so that you perceive yourself as unfulfilled. Unless you create you are unfulfilled, but God does not know unfulfillment and therefore you must create. You may not know your own creations, but this can no more interfere with their reality than your unawareness of your spirit can interfere with its being.
      - God's spirit or the Holy Spirit which we are one with has a single impetus on our being, to create. These creations continually occur, though we may not always be aware as to what they really are. No matter what we do in life, we are creating something.
    - The Holy Spirit's teaching takes only one direction and has only one goal. His direction is freedom and his goal is God. Yet he cannot conceive of God without you, because it is not God's will to be without you. When you have learned that your will is God's, you could no more will to be without him than he could will to be without you. This is freedom and this is joy. Deny yourself this and you are denying God his Kingdom, because he created you for this.

- The issue of authority is really a question of authorship. When you have no authority problem it is always because you believe you are the author of yourself and project your delusion unto others. You then perceived the situation as one in which others are literally fighting you for your authorship. This is the fundamental error of all those who believe they have served the power of God. This belief is very frightening to them, but hardly travels. He is, however, eager to induce not to punish his children, but only because he knows that it makes them happy. God's creations are given their true authorship. But you prefer to be anonymous. When you choose to separate yourself from your author. Being uncertain of your true authorship, you believe that your creation was anonymous. This leaves you in a position where it sounds meaningful to believe that you created yourself the dispute sounds, the dispute over authorship has left such uncertainty in your mind. There may even doubt whether you really exist at all.
- When you are sad, know this need not be. Depression comes from a sense of being deprived of something you want and do not have. You remember that you are deprived of nothing except by your own decisions and then decide otherwise.
- Watch your mind for the temptation of the ego and do not be deceived by it, it offers you nothing. When you have given up this volunteer in dispiriting, you will see how your mind can focus and rise above fatigue and heal.
- Yet you are not efficient sufficiently vigilant against the demands of the ego to disengage itself. This need not the okay. The habit of engaging with God in His creations is easily made if you are Actively refuse to let your minds away. The problem is that one of concentration is a belief that no one including yourself worth consistent effort. side with me consistently is consistently against this deception, and do not permit this shabby belief to pull you back to disheartened or useless to themselves and to me, but only the ego can be disheartened.
- You are a mirror of truth, in which God Himself shines in perfect light, through the Eagles, dark glass you need but say, I will not look there because I know these images are not true. Then let the holy ones shine and you and peace knowing that this only this must be his mind shone on you in your creation in your mind into being this man still shines and you must shine to you. Your ego cannot prevent him from shining any but it can prevent you from letting him shine through you
- In learning to escape from illusions you adapted to your brother is something you must never forget. It is the same debt that you owe me. Whenever you're act, egotistically towards another, you're throwing away the graciousness of your inductance and the holy perception it would produce the term holy can be used here because as you learn how much you're inducted to the hall sonship, which includes me, you come as close to knowledge as perception can be. The gap isn't so small that knowledge can easily flow across it and obliterate it forever.
- I will go with you to the Holy One. And through my perception, he can bridge the little gap. Yeah, gratitude to your brother is the only gift I want, I bring it back for you, knowing that you know your brother is to know that you are grateful to your brother, you're grateful to God for what he created to your gratitude, you come to know you better. And one moment of real recognition makes everyone your brother because each of them is of your father. Love does not conquer all things. But it does set all things right. Because you're the kingdom of God. I can lead you back to your own decisions, your own creations. You do not recognise them now. But what has been this this associated is still there.
- Everything that ego perceives is a separate whole. Without the relations of ships that imply being the ego is against communication, except insofar as it is utilised to establish a separateness rather than to polish it. The communication system of the ego is based on its own thoughts and everything else it dictates. His communication is controlled by the need to protect itself and it will disrupt communication when an experienced threat. This disruption is a reaction to a specific person or persons. The specificity of the Eagles thinking then results in spurious generalisation, which is really not abstract at all. A million spawns in certain specific ways to everything it perceives as related.
- The Holy Spirit is the only part of the Holy Trinity that has a symbolic function. He is referred to as a healer, the Comforter, and the guide is also described as something separate. Apart from the Father and from the son. I myself said, If I go, I will send you another comforter, and he will abide with you. His symbolic function makes the Holy Spirit difficult to understand because symbolism is open to different interpretations as a man and also one of God's creations by right thinking which came from the Holy Spirit of universal inspiration taught me first and foremost that this inspiration is for all I could not have it myself without knowingness. The word know is proper in this context, because the Holy Spirit is so close to knowledge that he calls it forth. What better allows it to come as spoken before the higher of true perception, which is so near to truth that God Himself can flow possible good. Knowledge is always ready to flow everywhere, but it cannot force therefore you can obstruct it, although you can never lose it.
- The ego cannot oppose the laws of God any more than you can, but it can interpret them according to what it wants, just as you can. That's why the question what do you want must be answered. you're answering it every minute, every second, and each Moment of decision is a judgement that is anything that ineffectual. Its effects will follow automatically until the decision is changed.
- Remember, though, that the alternatives themselves are unalterable. The Holy Spirit, like the ego is a decision. Together they constitute all the eternities. The mind can accept and obey. The Holy Spirit and the ego are the only choices open to you, God created one and so you cannot eradicate it. You made the other and so you can. Only what God creates is irreversible and unchangeable. What you made can always be changed because when you do not think like God, you are not really thinking at all. delusional ideas are not real thoughts are they you can believe in them. But you own the functional comes from God and it's in God as part of his thought. You cannot think apart from him.
- Teach only love for that as what you are
- here then the one answered the Holy Spirit to all the questions that you convinces your child of God praise is part of his kingdom was he created as part of him, nothing else exists and only this is we have chosen a seat and wish you have had bad dreams. But the sleep is not real and God calls you to awake. There will be nothing left to dream and when you hear him because he will awaken your dreams contain many of the evil symbols and they have confused you. Yet that was only because you were sick and did not know when you wake.
- You will see the truth around you and you will no longer believe in dreams because they will have no reality for you. You have the kingdom and all that you're created there will have great we have it for you because they are beautiful and true.
- To have give all to all, to have peace, teach peace to learn it. All who believe in separation have a basic fear of retaliation and abandoned, they will even attack rejection. So that is what they perceive and teach and learn. These insane ideas are clearly the result of dissociation and projection when you teach you on it's quite apparent that you can teach wrongly and can therefore Teach Yourself wrong many thought I was attacking them even though it was apparent I was not an insane learner learns strange lessons, when you must recognise that when you do not share a thought system you are weakening it, those who believe in it, therefore perceive this as an attack on them. This is because everyone identifies himself with his thought system and every thought system centre so what you believe you are The centre of the thought system is true, only truth extends from it. But if a lie is at its centre, only deception precedes it.
- be vigilant only for God and His kingdom.
- You learn first, that having arrests and giving and not getting next you learn that you learn what you teach and that you want to learn peace. This is the condition for identifying with the kingdom is it is the condition of the kingdom. You have believed that you are without the kingdom and have therefore excluded yourself from it. Your belief is therefore essential to teach you that you must be included that the belief that you are in that is the only thing that you must exclude.
- To teach the whole sonship without exception demonstrate that you perceive is homeless and I've learned that it is one. Now you must be vigilant to hold It's one that's in your mind because if you let that enter, you will lose awareness of its wholeness and will be unable to teach it. the wholeness of the kingdom does not depend on your perception, but your awareness of its wholeness is only your awareness that needs protection since being connected celled, yet a real sense of being cannot be yours while you're doubtful of what you are. This is why vigilance is essential. The ultimate being must not enter your mind or you cannot know what you are with certainty. certainty is of God for you. vigilance is not necessarily for truth, but it isn't necessarily against illusions.
- I said before the Eagles friend is not a part of you. Because the ego perceives itself at war and therefore in need of allies. You who are not at war with look for brothers and recognise all whom you see as brothers because oh, Equals or at peace, because God's equal sons have everything you cannot compete. Yet if they perceive and interpret as anything other than their perfect equals the idea of competition as entering their minds, do not underestimate your need to be vigilant against this idea because all your conflicts come from it is the belief that conflicting interests are powerful and therefore you have accepted them possible as true. Is that different from saying you perceive yourself as unreal
- you cannot forget the father because I am with you, and I cannot forget him. To forget me is to forget yourself and the human who created me, while others are forgetful. That is why they need you remembrance of me and of Him who created me do this. Remember, you can change their minds about themselves and I can change yours.
- Your mind is so powerful light that you can look into theirs and enlighten them as I can. enlighten yours, I want to share my mind with you because we are of one mind and that mind is ours. See only in this mind everywhere because only this is everywhere and everything. It is everything because it encompasses all things within itself. blessing, blessing or you can perceive only this because you receive only what is true.
- You are the will of God. do not accept anything else as your will or you are denying what you are denying this deny this and you will attack believing you have been attacked. But see the love of God in you and you will see it everywhere because it is everywhere. See his abundance in everyone and you will know you are in him with them. They are part of you as you are part of God. You're as lonely without understanding this as God Himself is lonely when his sons do not know. The peace of god is understanding this there was only one way out of the world's thinking. Just as there was only one way into it, understand totally, by understanding totality.
- The Holy Spirit will teach you to perceive beyond your belief, because truth is beyond belief and his his perception is true. The ego can be completely forgotten at any time, because it is totally in it is a totally incredible belief and no one can keep a belief he is judged to be unbelievable. The more you learn about the ego, the more you realise that it cannot be believed incredible cannot be understood because it is unbelievable. The meaninglessness of perception based on the unbelievable is apparent,
- but it may not be recognised as being being beyond belief because because it is made By the leaf extension of God's being his spirits only function its fullness cannot be contained any more than the fullness of its creator. fullness is extension the egos whole dog system blocks extension that is endless blocks your only function if therefore blocks your jewellery so that you perceive yourself as unfulfilled unless you create you are unfulfilled, but God does not know unfulfillment and therefore you must create. You may not know your own creations, but this can no more interfere with their reality than your unawareness of your spirit can interfere with its me.
- The Holy Spirit's teaching takes only one direction and there's only one goal. His direction is freedom and his goal is God. Yet he cannot conceive of God without cubicles. It is not God's will to be without you. When you have learned that your will is God you could no more will to be without him than he could will to be without you. This is freedom and this is freedom as joy, deny yourself this and you're denying God His kingdom because He created you for this.
- The goal of the curriculum regardless of the teacher you choose is Know thyself. There is nothing else to seek. Everyone is looking for himself and for the power and glory he thinks he has lost. Whenever you are with anyone, you have another opportunity to find them. Your power and glory are in him because they are the Eagles tries to find them in yourself only because it does not know where to look. The Holy Spirit teaches you that if you look only at yourself you cannot find yourself because that is not what you are. Whenever you are with a brother, you are learning what you are because you are teaching what you are. You respond either with pain or with joy and depending on which teacher you are following, you will be imprisoned or at least according to your decision. And so will you never forget your responsibility to him because it is your responsibility to yourself. Give him his place in the kingdom and you will have yours. I am come as a light into the world that does deny itself everything. It does this simply by dissociated itself from everything. It is therefore in the illusion of isolation maintained Fear of the same loneliness that is its illusion. I said that I am always with you. Even until the end of the world that is why I am the light of the world. If I am with you in the loneliness of the world, the loneliness is gone. You cannot maintain the illusion of loneliness if you are not alone. My purpose then is still to overcome the world. I do not attack it, but my light must dispel it because of what it is. Light does not attack darkness, but it does shine in the way if my light goes with you anywhere, everywhere. You shine it away with me. The light becomes ours and you cannot abide darkness any more than darkness can abide wherever you go. Do remembrance of me is remembrance of yourself and of Him who sent me to you
- Nothing God created can oppose your decision as nothing God created can oppose His will. God gave you will its power which I can only acknowledge in honour of his. If you want to be like me, I will help you. Knowing that we are like if you want it to be different, I will wait until you change your mind. I can teach you but only you can choose to listen to my teaching. How else can it be? If God's kingdom is freedom, equality, freedom cannot be learned by tyrant and can the perfect equality of all God's sons cannot be recognised. Through the dominion of one mind over another. God's sons are equally will or being the will of their father. This is the only lesson I came to teach
- "I Think I see a fearful world, a dangerous world, a hostile world, a sad world, a wicked world, a crazy world."
- "But I am upset because I see a meaningless world."
  - The basic idea is that the world is neither good or bad. All that is is neither good or bad. So there is no reason to be upset.
- A meaningless world engenders fear.
  - "Actually a meaningless world is impossible. Nothing without meaning exists."
  - "It is essential... that you learn to recognize the meaningless, and accept it without fear."
  - A meaningless world engenders fear because I think I am in competition with God.
- God did not create a meaningless world.
  - This is "...the reason why a meaningless world is impossible. What God did not create does not exist. And everything that does exist exists as He created it. The world you see has nothing to do with reality. It is of your own making, and it does not exist."
  - "This is your personal repertory of horrors at which you are looking. These things are part of the world you see. Some of them are shared illusions, and others are part of your personal hell."
- My thoughts are images that I have made.
  - "It is because the thoughts you think you think appear as images that you do not recognize them as nothing. You think you think them and so you think you see them. This is how your 'seeing' was made."
  - "You will begin to understand it when you have seen little edges of light around the same familiar objects which you see now."
- I have no neutral thoughts
  - "The idea for today is a beginning step in dispelling the belief that your thoughts have no effet. Everything you see is the result of your thoughts. There is no exception to this fact. Thoughts are not big or little; powerful or weak. They are merely true or false. Those that are true create their own likeneess. Those that are false make theirs."
  - "This thought about **\_\_\_** is not a neutral thought."
    - Not sure what meaning to ascertain. It relates to the idea that my thoughts, whatever they may be affect me. Each little thought has a certain power over me that I must find a way to understand. Only through this being aware of the thoughts that go through my brain am I able to overcome delusions or other wasteful parts of myself.
- I see no neutral things.
  - "I see no neutral things because I have no neutral thoughts."
    - I do not see a neutral **\_**, bcause my thoughts about \_\_\_\_ are not neutral.
      - **\_** = technology, religion, love, etc.
- I am not alone in experiencing the effects of my seeing.
  - The idea for today is another step in learning that the thoughts which give rise to what you see are never neutral or unimportant. I also emphasizes the idea that minds are joined...
    - I am not alone in experiencing the effects of how I see friendship.
    - I am not alone in experiencing the effects of how I see beauty
    - I am not alone in experiencing the effects of how I see comfort
    - I am not alone in experiencing the effects of my seeing
- I am determined to see
  - The exercises for today consist in reminding yourself throughout the day that you want to see. Today's idea also tacitly implies the recognition that you do not see now. Therefore, as you repeat the idea, you are stating that you are determined to change your present state for a better one, and one you really want.
