# whatt?????

One can imagine a central structure called a sense of self. This is always available. It never leaves. It is also amenable, we can change this sense to a central subject - be it a word of many meanings such as death or faith, or a topic that can be explored in many different ways. This structure is the center of our being, never leaving.

As this is so, to prolong a sense of self or a sense of a given topic, I will express a specific technique. This is simply having a conversation directed towards only one topic. An image to convey this in relation to time is to go down a road with many branching paths that lead back to the same road. You can go down a side path but the path must always return to the original road. But this only expresses a method of practice.

What I would like to express is why this practice is an ideal way to use ones mind. Now, what does this result in, in a longer term way? As in, what does this do to our brain?

Let me create an image. Let's say we try this practice for the first time in our lives (stay with me). We pick a topic, say death, which we are in a group speaking about with the method spoken of above. We will naturally touch upon a variety of meanings, with each individual giving their own unique viewpoint. Arguments, emotions, stories, and all the varieties of expression will be open to discussion (analogous to side paths) but always returning to the core topic (death in this case).

Now think of the central structure, the sense of self. In this case, this is rather the sense of death. We will naturally find expressions of others that resonate with us. These expressions will turn into corresponding mental structures. Now, what I would like to argue is that this process of creating mental structures is synonymous with creating a branch connected to our central structure. Here, this branch was created through the topic of death. Let's say we create (arbitrarily) 30 branches.

Those branches do not leave. They are attached to the central structure as long as we keep this practice alive. These branches live as long as we feed them by renewed practice. Notice I said they are attached to the central structure rather than only a sense of a singular topic (death in this case). So, whenever we renew this practice (conversation about a singular topic) we have these branches available to us.

Let me speak quickly of what I imagine to be a branch. Think of a story that you have within yourself related to death. This is a branch related to your sense of death, your central structure. Now, think of another topic within your life, say faith. This story is still available when working with this other topic. The story solely changes it's contextual nature. We find new meanings within it. Hence, the story becomes deeper as it naturally will grow in ways that enlighten one's sense of the given topic (in this case faith). So a branch lives forever as long we continue our practice and it also grows simultaneously.

Let me summarise. We have a central structure. This structure is meant to be directed towards singular topics. The practice of doing so is imaginable as a road with many side paths that lead back to the initial road. When we do this, we develop more branches out of the central structure. Branches are metaphors or analogies that better help us find meaning about the given topic. These branches are useful in (arguably) every topic, hence they grow in depth the more we practice. This practice is a means to assure a mind and brain that is full of meaning.
