# i gave up on this book...

There are people who feel bad in their bodies and do nothing about it, and there are people who feel bad in their bodies and submit their symptoms to search engines and stop there. Then there are people who can afford to circulate what hurts between professionals who will offer them competing diagnostic bids. This group of people follow a set of symptoms toward a promise, ask for tests, question answers, travel long distances to visit specialists who might be able to recognize what’s wrong. If symptoms are circulated long enough, a set of discomforts might be allowed the mercy of a name: a disease, a syndrome, a sensitivity, a search term. Sometimes that is cure enough—as if to appellate is to make okay. Sometimes to give a person a word to call their suffering is the only treatment for it. (Location 167)

Cancer’s custom, on the other hand, is to rarely show up unannounced. Cancer comes in a wave of experts and expert technologies. It arrives via surveillance and professional declaration. Our senses tell us almost nothing about our illness, but the doctors ask us to believe that what we cannot see or feel might kill us, and so we do. (Location 182)

“We study health and we deliberate upon our meats, and drink, and air, and exercises, and we hew, and we polish every stone that goes to that building; and so our health was long and a regular work: but in a minute a cannon batters all.” (Location 342)

It is decided without ceremony that the doctors will eventually take my breasts from me and discard them in an incinerator, and because of it, I begin the practice of pretending that my breasts were never there. (Location 348)

Everything about being sick is written in our bodies first and sometimes written in notebooks later. Erotics are rarely allowed in cancer, and this is probably not a novel, but I would rather be Marguerite Duras, to write of love or its disappointments. Once treatment begins, my erotic longing is for assistive devices: a wheelchair and someone to push it, a bedpan and someone to empty it. Then my longing is to spend an hour in consideration of the act of “moving” each time I must move, mentally rehearsing this event of movement, preparing each part of my body that will be required to move and in what relationship with the others, and then to move and to find all the mental preparation had no effect on movement’s difficulty. Before I got sick I was strong, but soon to be so weak that to walk short distances, like the six feet from the bed to the bedroom door, left me winded. First a whole life of being appetitive, then to not be able to eat or have sex and to not want to, to not have it matter too much because I also can’t without great effort shop for or prepare food or raise my hand to stroke in tenderness the no one that is here; (Location 385)

To endure Adriamycin feels like an ancient rite, performed across the decades and on the occasion of many types of cancers as a ritual induction whether a patient needs it or not. Because of how it kills off cells totally in a classic way—turning people bald, making them throw up—its consequences feel like the oncological definitive. Lots of people have cancers that leave few marks on their appearance, but a cancer victim—in the cinematic sense—is a person who has had this kind of chemotherapy. That my treatment begins with it is a clear sign of how little progress has been made. (Location 503)

I was given the Adriamycin with cyclophosphamide, a drug approved for use in 1959, in a common treatment combination called dense-dose AC chemo. Cyclophosphamide is a medicalized form of a chemical weapon already developed by Bayer under the name LOST. Mustard gas, as it is also known, has always done its worst as an incapacitant rather than a killer, but it can kill a person, too. During World War I, LOST filled the trenches with brilliant yellow plumes.6 During cancer, it comes in plastic pouches, and no one in the pavilion speaks frankly about what it is. Outlawed as a weapon in 1925, it is a form of slow obliteration that lives on only in chemotherapy and, after that, as its own consequences: infection, infertility, cancer, cognitive loss. In chemotherapy, as in war, when you are being exposed to cyclophosphamide, it is advisable that you have someone to hold your hand. (Location 551)

Cancer spending was $130 billion in 2017, greater than the GDP of more than a hundred countries.12 The cost of one chemotherapy infusion was more money than I had then earned in any year of my life. (Location 737)

In vertical life, when you are well or mostly and walking around, pretending to be, the top of your head is the space that the heavens touch. The total area of the top of you is pretty small. You are only moderately airy, then, and your eyes, rather than gazing up, gaze outward at the active world, and it is to this you are mostly reacting. And it is mostly during the night, during dreams, that imagining becomes temporarily expansive and the ceiling air spreads over you, or at least this was, in those days, one magic theory I conjured in bed to explain the relationship of posture to thought. When you are sick and horizontal, the sky or skyish air of what is above you spreads all over your body, the increased area of airy intersection leads to a crisis of excessive imagining. All that horizontality invites a massive projecting of cognitive forms. When you are so often lying down, you are also so often looking up. (Location 787)

John Donne’s Devotions upon Emergent Occasions, (Location 804)

But it would be easy for any of those accounts of doing the dishes to miss what is important about doing the dishes, which is that it is not interesting or remarkable work in itself, but that it is the work on which everything else depends. (Location 884)

Now I am ashamed that I had ever been so unphilosophical as to search in a mirror for a wrinkle, ashamed also about how I used to covet my physical pleasures in the manner of a miser whose tiny purse they believe to be full of riches but is full of nothing but carefully accounted-for decay. I am ashamed that I should ever have been like a dog who thought its purpose was in guarding the modest portion of deception and ephemerality that is sometimes mistaken for beauty. (Location 912)

If you send me a literature in which a woman with cancer is herself, a complete, complex, and speaking person, I will open the mail. But what kept showing up was like the unrivaled suffering of some acquaintances with whom I’d often disagreed too much to call friends. They seemed to cry harder at my diagnosis than I did. All that unearned “so shook up” typed, overfamiliarly, toward me in chats by men who expected me to absorb their own excessive feeling on the occasion of my devastation. (Location 965)

In the industrialized world, an estimated half of us have cancer, or will get it, and most everyone, even if we don’t know it, is carrying a little bit of it around. Cancer doesn’t even really exist, at least not as itself. Cancer is an idea we cast as an aspersion over our own malignancy. (Location 1090)

It should be no surprise that single women with breast cancer, even adjusting for age, race, and income, die of it at up to twice the rate of the married. The death rate gets higher if you are single and poor. (Location 1175)

While they don’t get a hospital bed to recover in or rehabilitation for the cognitive damage incurred during their treatment, what they do get in the United States is federally mandated access to breast reconstruction—any type of implant they want. (Location 1221)

After my chemotherapy seems to work, people say how they knew that I, of course, would survive, as if I were someone so special and strong and all the others weren’t. (Location 1341)

Suppose for a moment the claims about pain’s ineffability are historically specific and ideological, that pain is widely declared inarticulate for the reason that we are not supposed to share a language for how we really feel. (Location 1672)

The drive to stop the pain of others because pain is so loud, so vividly expressed, often takes the form of wanting to do anything at all to end the pain of another precisely because of the way that this pain inflicts the experience of an impossible-to-bear sympathetic discomfort—sometimes in the form of annoyance, sometimes in the form of anxiety, sometimes in the form of pity—upon one’s self. (Location 1683)
