# another boooooooooook

Others, like the Pew Research Center, argued that the accuracy of the polling had been foiled by the surprise phenomenon of “shy Trumpers” or voters too embarrassed about their support for Trump to give an accurate account to pollsters. (Location 94)

Contemporary social science is a veritable factory of meanings, every bit as dynamic, poetical, and fecund as a creative writing department. (Location 117)

These themes shape the central thesis of this book: that social science rarely simply neutrally describes the world, but rather plays a role in constructing and shaping it. (Location 119)

Five hundred years ago one of the largest transformations in human history began, a movement that continues into the present day and whose scope is now global. This movement began in small pockets of Europe, led by clusters of intellectuals who called themselves “natural philosophers” and sought to recover ancient Greek and Roman sources. However, these thinkers quickly went beyond their ancient sources, devising new concepts, paradigms, and methods for studying the natural world. Soon they were upending everything that had been thought up to that time about the structure of the universe, the motion of objects, the anatomy of life, and the basic composition of reality. The result of their awe-inspiring intellectual creativity was a quantum leap forward in human understanding, which we now retrospectively call “the scientific revolution.” (Location 179)

Interpretive philosophy holds that achieving the unity of science is an impossible task because humans create and embody meanings in a way that requires the art of interpretation and not simply scientific explanation. (Location 218)

Some people are suspicious that stories or narratives are really the best we have when explaining human behavior. But if the interpretive position is true, then stories are simply the only rational way to explain human actions. The central task of the social sciences is therefore to tell the most objective, nuanced, complex, and true story about a given slice of social reality. (Location 241)

The primary story of this book is how social science, beginning as a high form of academic theory, can enter into the everyday world of ideology and culture and have unintended, sometimes even deeply sinister consequences that are obscured by a rhetoric of scientific neutrality and authority. (Location 243)

Updated: May 30, 2022

When the housing market finally crashed, vaporizing billions in real estate wealth, many ordinary Americans were forced to abandon not only their homes but also their feelings of financial security and self-worth. (Location 309)

A key feature in creating “the economy” as an object of collective contemplation was an elaborate statistics of economic indicators communicated via mass media. (Location 338)

What was rarely recognized was the fact that these indicators contained thousands of unseen choices and evaluations about what was socially and politically relevant and what was erasable from discussion. (Location 345)

The economy could therefore be healthy, roaring, and bullish, even as some citizens were permanently trapped in the pathologies of material want or other forms of economic malaise. (Location 348)

Updated: May 31, 2022

Hayek explained that a market system was a “marvel” rivaling “the greatest triumphs of the human mind,” because although it was “not the product of human design,” it nonetheless organized knowledge and scarce resources optimally and enabled individuals to “take the right action.” (Location 479)

Moreover, this economic metaphor seemed to offer a simple political moral: government was bad at organizing, while this spontaneous thing called the economy was sleek and good at it. (Location 488)

In a metaphor imagined by millions of people simultaneously, markets were a bundle of self-correcting forces. They reached equilibriums, responded to failures, and aggregated information in a manner far superior to any conscious effort of the human mind. As Hayek had said, perhaps humankind’s best machine was an accidental invention or no real invention at all but rather a spontaneously occurring order. (Location 494)

In it they argued that modern economics had become captive to highly mathematized models and idealized conceptions of individual rational self-interest that eclipsed the real world. The precision of the mathematical models fed an illusion of scientificity and predictive powers among both economists and the general public. And this abstract, idealized formalism, the Dahlem Report concluded, was also linked to an enormous and unfounded faith in free markets as spontaneously stable and rational orders. (Location 509)

Although advocates for this marketization of school systems (from Friedman to DeVos) stressed the equalizing effects of such policy, Detroit had experienced the exact reverse. In the wake of vouchers and school choice, investigative reporting uncovered massive differential outcomes in Detroit’s school system for the poor versus the rich. Among the consequences was increased defunding or closing of schools in poorer districts deemed unable to compete by supposed market measures such as ability to attract students (customers) or raise standardized test scores (efficient output). The result was that some poor areas of Detroit had effectively become educational deserts, from which parents might need to travel many miles to take their children to school. (Location 541)

Rather than a rational market of equal choosers, school choice had spawned a labyrinth of public goods wherein benefits were informally funneled through increasingly obscure mechanisms toward those who had the greatest resources and away from the poor. (Location 554)

Where Friedman did succeed was in teaching millions of his readers to view the idealized, frictionless models of economics as if they were the mechanics of Newtonian physics. (Location 568)

Aristotle argued in his Nicomachean Ethics that a just citizen needed to be taught from a young age to cultivate virtues like justice, moderation, and prudence and to eliminate vices like profligacy, overindulgence, greed, and vanity. Failure to habituate to these virtues and integrate them deep into one’s character would lead to a citizenry willing to pillage society and the public good for the sake of their own private profit. Were Americans taught certain subliminal moral messages by popular economics and social science? (Location 581)

Updated: Jun 01, 2022

when free-market economists jettisoned Locke’s state of nature and Smith’s notion of human sentiments as insufficiently scientific. In their place they adopted a highly technical theory of human behavior that assumed all actions were motivated by self-interest. (Location 621)

Indeed, a follower of the Freakonomics sensation in the early 2000s would have learned that calculating in terms of rational self-gain at the cost of others was simply the scientific thing to do. (Location 672)

ordinary people were conceiving of their social lives. According to Bellah’s analysis, based on a large number of detailed interviews, a radically autonomous, atomized individual was emerging, disconnected from surrounding personal and civic associations. In romantic relations Bellah noted a hyper-individualistic mentality among couples, in which autonomy and the ability to choose other options at all times was paramount. This autonomous self also viewed love as a kind of subjective consumer preference based on no other justification than that it “feels right.” (Location 694)

In addition, private individuals were responsible for global climate change, not any kind of social or political community as a whole. This meant the rational response could be reduced to minor consumer choices on the margins (e.g., recycling a glass bottle, xeriscaping, buying an electric car, composting). What was certainly off the table were collective movements and forms of association that broke out of the individualistic, market polis mode. (Location 778)

Older claims for public spiritedness, patriotism, and civic self-sacrifice sounded naïve and unscientific in the spaces of the market polis. This was in stark contrast to the political culture of early America, which had drawn from the ancient republican tradition and held that the pursuit of private self-interest at the expense of the public good was the key distinguishing feature of unjust, morally corrupt societies. (Location 802)

Rational choice fails to explain human behavior because it does not grapple with the range of possible meanings that motivate human life. In the rush to establish a universal, scientific anthropology, this theory neglects human beings’ distinguishing feature: their ability to embody meanings. (Location 822)

One never simply discovers the fact that humans are fundamentally economic agents, in the way that natural scientists discover that genes have a particular nucleic acid sequence. Rather, the very discovery of economic man was part of the creation of economic man. Perhaps it would be best to say that free-market economists did not unearth the world but helped to contrive it. (Location 839)

Updated: Jun 02, 2022

“Why may we not say that all Automata (Engines that move themselves by springs and wheels as doth a watch) have an artificial life? For what is the Heart but a Spring, and the Nerves, but so many Strings; and the Joints but so many Wheels, giving motion to the whole Body?” (Location 884)

Updated: Jun 13, 2022

But beginning in the 1980s and 1990s, under the heavy influence of the free-market science of economics and its model of the inherently rational consumer (apparently even those dealing with potentially debilitating mental illness), government officials deregulated this aspect of the pharmaceutical economy and allowed corporations to advertise everything from antidepressants to opioid painkillers directly to average Americans. Such direct-to-consumer advertising presented more simplified accounts of depression than those offered in the specialized genre of the technical discourses of psychiatric and psychological science. Indeed, studies of the commercial culture surrounding the sale of antidepressants like Prozac found that antidepressant advertising consistently “propagate[d] narrowly biological explanations of depression.” (Location 971)

The psychologist Irving Kirsch authored a widely debated empirical study that found “most of the improvement shown by depressed people when they take antidepressants is due to the placebo effect.”13 This suggested that the entire social ritual of advertising, submission to scientific authority, and taking pills was itself the major ingredient in treating anxiety and depression. (Location 978)

Psychiatrist Peter Kramer, in his massively popular Listening to Prozac, suggested that antidepressants might be used not merely to treat depression but also to generate certain types of personalities that were deemed socially attractive: energetic, confident, sociable, and highly productive in the workplace. For Kramer the main significance of an antidepressant like Prozac was its ability to generate a type of fundamental conversion. “My concern,” Kramer wrote, drawing on his own experiences as a clinician, “has been . . . people who are not so much cured of illness as transformed.”14 Indeed, Kramer believed he stood at the threshold of an epoch-making discovery in psychology, from which a new kind of modern self would emerge. The point was not whether antidepressants like Prozac were good or bad but that “it is impossible to imagine the modern world without them.” (Location 990)

studies like those by Oliver James in Britain suggested that levels of depression, anxiety, and other maladies were social in origin, appearing at much higher rates in hyper-individualistic, materialistic societies than in other political orders. (Location 1006)

In cases such as attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), the more people interpret themselves through these scientific categories, the higher the incidence of the disease. Gregg Henriques has noted that the scientists who first developed the categories of ADHD hypothesized that only 1 to 2 percent of children would exhibit such a pathology, but by 2013 nearly 15 percent of American high schoolers had been diagnosed with the disease and treated with pharmaceuticals. (Location 1011)

Where once students and their parents might have interpreted energy and concentration problems under a different cultural rubric (e.g., as a sign that there was a need to reform traditional schooling or as an area for developing Aristotle’s notion of moral excellence or arête), now the phenomenon of restlessness in a classroom was pathologized and perceived as disease by the students themselves. (Location 1017)

While Alford, Funk, and Hibbing suggested their research might be a first step to understanding across political divides, the very reverse was happening in the culture. The metaphor of conservative versus liberal brains was potentially being incorporated into human self-understanding and encouraging prejudicial behavior against the other side. Perhaps liberals and conservatives had already experienced difficulty in forming friendships, let alone marriages. But now they learned that science showed the idea of amity between them was far-fetched. (Location 1073)

The entire foregoing analysis of double-H effects implies that there is something remarkable about humans that drastically differs from machines and makes the metaphor of Homo machina misleading at best. Even the most sophisticated machines engineered to date lack an experience of meaning or purpose as integral to their actions. (Location 1079)

A computing (or any other kind of) machine does not experience disappointment, shame, triumph, fellow feeling, or pride when executing its operations. And faster and faster algorithms do nothing to narrow this yawning gap between semantics and syntax. (Location 1087)

My point is to suggest that the significance feature of human intelligence is what makes much of the social sciences a poeticizing, creative act of meaning and not merely a descriptive science of the world that was already there waiting for us. (Location 1108)

At the center of this story is a deeper cultural fear that is the actual, repressed object of anxiety in the contemporary AI debate between doomsayers and boosters. This is a repressed fear of ourselves and what we might become if we go further down the road of the form of selfhood presented by Homo machina. That is to say, fear of robots is fear of ourselves without humanity, without empathy. Or perhaps more accurately, fear of AI is fear not of technology but of a new constellation of meanings opened up by technological society. The machine-self is one possible form of identity that humans embody in a culture of scientism. (Location 1123)

Stalinism was only one extreme version of the propensity of modern societies to conduct “scientific” mass killings. This is the kind of killing carried out remotely and planned by scientific experts. A dark dream that began in the French Revolution with the guillotine has reached an apotheosis with the invention of the concentration camp-laboratory, where violence is perfectly justified because it is perfectly rational. (Location 1131)

The management ethos seeks to engineer human relationships in a manner analogous to how technologists use the theoretical insights of physics and chemistry to construct bridges, computers, or telephones. Only the materials in this case are actual human beings (or “human resources” in the language of management speak). We presently inhabit a world dominated by the management ethos, in which humans are reduced to mere resources for rational control. (Location 1175)

A person wishing to grow in the tradition of Romantic love necessarily becomes a reader (and perhaps even writer) of poetry and love letters, while a person in the algorithmic-mode is chiefly concerned with opportunity costs on a marriage market. (Location 1222)

In its relentlessly disengaged personal moralism and obsessive self-care, the scientistic self-help genre bears a distant echo of the discourses of the ancient Stoics. The locus is no longer the enchanted Stoic cosmos, but the impersonal, ambitious arenas of materialistic commercial society. (Location 1252)

Indeed, in many cultural milieus those who follow steps in order to scientifically compel others to be drawn to them qualify as the height of phony and uncharismatic. In other words, these social scientific meanings are much more an enactment, performance, and enforcement of ideology than they are anything having to do with the authority of science. (Location 1260)

This worldview fits well with a version of “democracy” in which heightened inequality absorbs the majority of ordinary people in simply trying to economically survive, as political participation is reduced to periodic voting for a broad platform or a candidate. What is ruled out by Thaler and Sunstein’s notion of nudging is a society in which everyone is given a chance to develop the educational resources and leisure to exit the automatic mind. Indeed, Thaler and Sunstein never even consider that exit from automatic mind would be better achieved by radically increased leisure for ordinary people and local control of civic spaces. Instead, their political theory is unreflectively technocratic and their vision of democracy one in which a few elites are given resources to overcome their biases (and everyone else’s biases for them). In other words, Thaler and Sunstein appear to be scientifically describing a cognitive problem, when they are in fact helping to reinforce a highly hierarchical form of democracy in an age of inequality. (Location 1315)

Nudge can thus partly be read as an artifact of class privilege and how social science elites at the beginning of the twenty-first century claimed to have the leisure and intelligence to overcome their own cognitive biases (at least while formulating public policy) while everyone else was too busy enduring a radically unequal America. (Location 1338)

The foregoing analysis suggests that much of popular social science in its various, competing theoretical instantiations may be read as expressive of a particular kind of modern ethical self, one that is technocratic and manipulative in its dealings with others. (Location 1341)

For now one lesson is that social science makes a very long and strange descent from the peaks of high academic theory into the valleys of mass culture. In its high-genre form, social science appears disembodied on an academic journal page, technical in its jargon, third person in its perspective, and free of any ideological or ethical taint. However, as this discourse migrates into the popular arena, it takes on more accessible, poeticized, and overtly ideologized meanings. While the high-genre academic monograph kept to a rhetoric of dry rigor, the vulgarized form often openly and crassly declares the underlying metaphor in all its brutality. (Location 1361)

“Broken windows” policing tellingly began life in 1982 as a popular article in the Atlantic. Wilson, now with his coauthor George Kelling, suggested that toleration of petty crimes (e.g., vandalism, panhandling, loitering) raised the chances that individuals would commit serious offenses (e.g., assault, larceny, homicide). In their famous image, a neighborhood that tolerated small acts of vandalism such as broken windows would predictably experience higher rates of violent crime. Small infractions were thus “inextricably linked” to grave breaches of law because “one unrepaired broken window is a signal that no one cares, and so breaking more windows costs nothing.” (Location 1426)

Similarly, an all-out war on panhandlers, loiterers, and pilferers was also a war on serious crime like rape, murder, and larceny. According to this view, Eric Garner was not simply a poor man committing a minor infraction. He was a sower of disorder whose persistent and open acts of defiance might pull the entire community into anarchy. (Location 1439)

This brutally dark vision of enforcement under the pseudoscientific moniker of “broken windows” became the official approach to policing in New York City under Mayor Rudolph Giuliani; later it was adopted by many cities nationwide. (Location 1443)

For example, common infractions associated with the whiter upper class (e.g., illegally hiring a landscaper or worker, tax evasion, jaywalking, serving alcohol to minors at a private party) were considered more tolerable and not truly disordered. By contrast, the minor infractions associated with poorer, browner people (e.g., selling loosies, sharing drinks on the stoop, jumping turnstiles) were unacceptable and scientifically linked to a crime wave. As Harcourt brilliantly observed: “Our modern conception of the disorderly” was “an unattached, young, most often racialized other, with a powerful tendency to commit crime.” (Location 1449)

Taken to their logical conclusion, such behavioristic theories of crime recommended total incapacitation. Even small infractions were potential flags indicating probabilistic inputs that were more nefarious. In societies of high racial and class animus, these social scientific claims easily translated into political despair over and loathing of entire demographic categories of people (black, Latino, immigrant, etc.). (Location 1486)

spread of special weapons and tactics (SWAT) units among local police forces in the 1980s and 1990s as well as the way that America’s ghettos were increasingly policed with war technologies and a “counterinsurgency, low intensity conflict model.”12 In other words, policing America’s poor neighborhoods was not seen as a collaborative project carried out between government and citizens but as the patrolling of a war zone. (Location 1496)

one study found that England and Wales (both with far more democratized, unarmed policing cultures) had only fifty-five fatal police shootings in the twenty-four years leading up to 2015, while the United States had fifty-nine fatal police shootings in the first twenty-four days of 2015. (Location 1501)

The sociologist Aaron Panofsky has shown that—although kept at a distance by mainstream social and natural scientists in the academy—behavioral genetics nonetheless succeeded in the public arena in creating a popular, superstitious discourse he calls “astrological genetics.”18 Astrological genetics is the peculiar modern practice of reading biological signs on human bodies (said to reveal the genetic code) and determining a particular individual’s or group’s fate. (Location 1536)

race is a “floating signifier.” According to Hall, the perception that a cluster of physical features forms a race is not grounded in biology but is rather a cultural and historical phenomenon. (Location 1555)

This is what Hall calls the “trap” of race: when modern people read physical signs and expect them to guarantee the meaning and significance of a particular person’s identity. Racial thinking is a trap because it puts its faith in physical traits as a method for reading cultural, social, and psychological content. If Hall is right, a huge part of modern racism involves the invention of a pseudoscientific literature, so to speak, for reading bodies, in which certain physical traits are like letters and symbols. For this reason, Hall says that “race works like a language. . . . [It] is closer to how a language works, than of how our biology is or our physiologies work.”19 This is also why the meaning of race is constantly changing, being challenged, resisted, imposed, revised, and debated. (Location 1559)

The most common defense of the law-and-order movement is that—whatever the merits or demerits of the social science that helped create it—police tactics of zero tolerance work. Such tactics, after all, did coincide with a dramatic drop in the crime rate. But the problem with this defense is that it is false. The implementation of law-and-order policing by Giuliani did not in any clear way lead to the lowering of crime in New York City in the 1990s. Later empirical research has raised the question of whether the New York “miracle” under Giuliani was largely a mirage. The research of Harcourt once again has been hugely important, uncovering an extensive case against the attribution of a falling crime rate to zero-tolerance policing. Indeed, Harcourt observed that many American cities that rejected zero tolerance (including Boston, Los Angeles, San Diego, and Houston) also experienced dramatic drops in the crime rate during the same period. (Location 1585)

The central interpretive point of this chapter is that law and order was not so much discovered as it was imagined and performed. Popular social science has played an unrecognized role in inaugurating this process, as many of its descriptions are in fact imaginings, and many of its imaginings are a script for social performance. What thus resulted from law-and-order theorists was a massive instance of a double-H effect in which what claimed to be empirical social science was actually the articulation and enactment of an ideology. (Location 1593)

As historian Daniel Immerwahr has extensively chronicled, after World War II the United States largely gave up a traditional colonial empire and instead built an elaborate international system of military bases. This was a new form of power that Immerwahr, following historian Bill Rankin, calls a “pointillist empire,” in which the globe was influenced militarily through a small network of points. Gone were the land grabs of prior empires. In their place fortified bases perched on foreign soil housed the latest military technologies at the ready (computerized drones, nuclear warheads, next-generation fighter jets), able to project power over every other region on Earth. In total the United States had approximately eight hundred such bases, while the other nations of the world combined possessed about thirty.2 There was therefore a tension at the center of the American war on terror. On the one hand, the United States was a nonaggressor state, an anti-imperial defender of democracy taking no unprovoked action against other nations and respecting the sovereign will of the people in its fight to eradicate “terror” wherever it was found. On the other hand, it ran a vast, deterritorialized empire of military bases able to threaten any perceived foe with annihilation (nuclear or otherwise). In other words, it governed the world through occasional acts of military might meant to induce a psychological threat (even terror). How could the leading champion of anti-imperial freedom and foe of terror at the same time control the vastest, mightiest empire on Earth through a psychology of implied threats? (Location 1622)

The war on terror was in this way no war at all, but a way of waging peace. If in the future a liberal democracy were to turn on itself, increasingly targeting citizens, this too might be made to fit within the formal boundaries of liberal peace’s conceptual apparatus. After all, the Bush administration had legally argued that the internment of enemy combatants without the basic right of habeas corpus was justified by the war on terror. Perhaps one day in the future the war on terror would be conducted on society itself, with citizens selectively identified as enemy combatants. None of this contradicted democratic peace theory as long as certain basic institutional markers of democracy were still intact.12 The war on terror—almost by scientific fiat—would not appear on the objective register of military violence and bellicosity. (Location 1725)

Milosz asks: “Are we not seduced by speech? Oratory, high ideological chanting, philosophies, theories—all of them grafted on excrementalities and exhalations of our bodies.” (Location 1849)

Indeed, what if social science were read not as a descriptive, empirical genre but as an imaginative, ethically and politically exhortative one instead? What if the massive output by social scientists was read less like Newton’s Principia and more like the novels of James Joyce or, better yet, Thomas More’s Utopia, the Discourses of Epictetus, the book of Genesis, and the Communist Manifesto? That is, what if we saw in all social science a performative feature of culture creation, meaning-making, and world-building? (Location 1864)

the technological way of being in the world is one that treats all of reality like a mechanics, like physics, like a machine. In this view, no part of reality is above being manipulated by a science of laws and turned into an instrument. The personal features of reality—meanings, history, narrative, culture—can be put aside. Instead, all of reality appears as what Heidegger famously dubbed “standing-reserves,” or perhaps better, resources.4 (Location 1906)

Human beings are not reducible to the technological gaze, because they are different within the order of objects in the cosmos. In other words, the interpretive insights of Heidegger actually point back in the direction of humanism. As Heidegger’s most important student, Hans-Georg Gadamer, recognized, “the chief task” of interpretive and hermeneutic philosophy in the realm of politics is to guard humanity “against the domination of technology based on science . . . the idolatry of scientific method and the anonymous authority of the sciences.” (Location 1935)

Dan McAdams, who heads a broad research program focusing on how healthy humans spontaneously form what he calls a “narrative psychology” or “life-story” as part of maturation. One of McAdams’s fundamental findings is that stories are not just aesthetic or cultural add-ons, but rather are vitally necessary to the human psychological process of personal integration. Without stories human identity disintegrates. Indeed, some of the most difficult transitions in human life (e.g., adolescence, midlife crises) and extreme traumas (e.g., grief, loss, depression, anxiety) involve a problem of narrative. For this reason, McAdams writes that “stories” literally “heal us when we are sick, and even move us toward psychological fulfillment and maturity.” (Location 1944)

The story of social science in the modern world—as with all sciences—is partly also a story of powers unleashed and dimly understood. Every one of the chapters in this book may be read as a certain weird retelling of the story of Frankenstein and his monster. (Location 1975)

A disturbing increase in science denial (e.g., conspiracy theorists, anti-vaxxers, climate change deniers) is in a mutually supporting dialectic with the absolute scientism of a Pinker or a Dawkins. Although they have not yet realized it, figures like Pinker and Dawkins, far from defending science, undermine it by overpromising and exaggerating its authority. Ultra-Darwinists and biblical literalists are dance partners. (Location 1997)
